OfflineUX.md, before:

#### Offline UX Patterns

### Contents
* [Motivation & Philosophy](#motivation-&-philosophy)
* [UX Pattern Flowchart](#ux-pattern-flowchart)
* [Answering Questions on the Flow Chart](#answering-questions-on-the-flowchart)
* [Description of the Patterns](#description-of-the-patterns)
    - [None - No Offline Behavior](#none---no-offline-behavior)
    - [A - Optimistic Without Feedback](#a---optimistic-without-feedback)
    - [B - Optimistic With Feedback](#b---optimistic-with-feedback)
    - [C - Blocking Form](#c---blocking-form)
    - [D - Full Page Blocking](#d---full-page-blocking)

### Motivation & Philosophy

Understanding the offline behavior of our app is vital to becoming a productive contributor to the Expensify codebase. Our mission is to support our users in every possible environment, and often our app is used in places where a stable internet connection is not guaranteed. 

The most important concept to keep in mind while reading this document is that we want to allow users to do as much as possible when offline. At first, this might seem impossible because almost everything the user can touch in our app is related to an API request. However, in many cases, we can save that API request and assume it will succeed when the user is back online. We then allow the user to proceed as if their request already succeeded. We call this an optimistic response. Here, we use the word **optimistic** to indicate that we’re confident the request will succeed when the user is online, and we know what that successful response will look like. 

<hr />
Example: Pinning a chat

When a user clicks the pin button <img style="height: 10px; width: 10px;" src="./assets/images/pin.svg"/> on a chat, two things should happen. 

1. **API Request:** We send a request to the API to ensure the change is saved in the database. This way the chat is pinned on all the user's devices, and will remain pinned even if they leave the app and come back. 

2. **UI Changes:** The chat should go to the top of the list with the other pinned chats, and the pin button should look darker than it did before. This is visual feedback that clicking the pin button worked.

If the user is offline, we don't need to wait for the API request to finish before doing all that visual stuff because this particular API request has almost no way of failing, and we know what the server will return in advance. That means we can safely assume that when we send the command, it will succeed and that's why we let the user continue using the app as if the action succeeded.

<hr />

1. In some instances, we simply wouldn't know _how_ to proceed because of a lack of information (often the server returns data that we wouldn't be able to guess the content of). 

1. We don't know _how_ to proceed because of a lack of information (often the server returns data that we wouldn't be able to guess the content of). 

2. We may be able to guess what a successful request would look like, but we don't want to misguide the user into believing their action was completed. For example, we don't want the user to believe that a financial transaction has been made when it actually hasn't. 


### Descriptions of the UX Patterns

# None - No Offline Behavior

 There’s no specific UI for this case. The feature either looks totally normal and works as expected (because it doesn’t need the server to function) or the feature looks like it did whenever connection was lost. 

Used when…
 - there is no interaction with the server in any way
 - or data is READ from the server and does not need to show up-to-date data. The user will see stale data until the new data is put into Onyx and then the view updates to show the new data. 

# A - Optimistic Without Feedback Pattern

This is the pattern where we queue the request to be sent when the user is online and we continue as if the request succeeded. 

Used when…
 - the user should be given instant feedback and
 - there is no error handling in the server and
 - the user does not need to know when the change is done on the server in the background

How to implement: Use API.write() to implement this pattern. 

# B - Optimistic WITH Feedback Pattern
This pattern queues the API request, but also makes sure that the user is aware that the request hasn’t been sent yet **when the user is offline**. When the user is online, the feature should just look like it succeeds immediately (we dont want the offline UI to flicker on and off when the user is online).

Used when…
 - the user needs feedback that data is being sent to the server
This is a minority use case at the moment, but INCREDIBLY HELPFUL for the user, so proceed with cautious optimism.

How to implement: Use API.write() to implement this pattern. 

# C - Blocking Form UI Pattern
This pattern blocks the user from interacting with an entire page.

Used when…
 - a form is used to make a WRITE request to the server and 
 - server has to do some validation of the parameters that can’t be done in the client or
 - server response will be unknown so it cannot be done optimistically
 - If the request is moving money 
 - If the request is related to security

What: This pattern greys out the submit button on a form and does not allow the form to be submitted. We also show a "You appear offline" message near the bottom of the screen. Importantly, we do let the user fill out the form fields. That data gets saved locally so they don’t have to fill it out again once online.

When: This should be used when we cannot allow the user to submit the form while offline.

How to implement: Use the `<FormAlertWithSubmitButton/>` component.

# D - Full Page Blocking UI Pattern
This pattern blocks the user from interacting with an entire page.

Used when…
 - blocking READ is being performed. This occurs when the data that a user sees cannot be stale data and the data can only be displayed after fetching it from the server (eg. Plaid's list of bank accounts)
 - the app is offline and the data cannot be fetched
 - an error occurs when fetching the data and the user needs instructions on what to do next
This should only be used in the most extreme cases when all other options have been completely and utterly exhausted

What: This pattern blocks the user from interacting with an entire page.

How to implement: Wrap the component you're working on in a `<FullPageOfflineBlockingView>` component. 

### UX Pattern Flow Chart

The following flowchart can be used to determine which UX pattern should be used.

![New Expensify Data Flow Chart](/web/OfflineUX_Patterns_Flowchart.png)

### Answering Questions on the Flow Chart

The numbers in this section correlate to the numbers in each decision box above (the diamond shapes).

1. Does the feature interact with the server?

If you’re changing an existing feature, you can open the network tab of dev tools to see if any network requests are being made when you use the feature. If network requests are being made, the answer to this question is YES. Note: sometimes you may see reqeusts that happen to fire at the same time as the feature you're working on, so be sure to double check. 
If you’re making a new feature, think about whether any data would need to be retrieved or stored from anywhere other than the local device. If data needs to be stored to, or retrieved from the server, then the answer is YES.

2. What type of request is being made?

If there’s new data being saved on the server, you’re making a WRITE request. If you’re retrieving existing data from the server, you’re making a READ request. 

3. Is it OK for the user to see stale data?

Example: The payment method list. We don't want the user to see a payment method that we no longer support, not even while the payment methods are being loaded from the server (or while the user is offline). Therefore, we answer NO, which leads us to the blocking UI. This way the user won't see stale data while we load the payment methods.

4. Is the UI a form?

Any easy way to tell if something is a form is to try and find a submit button. If a submit button is present or if the user is filling out form inputs, answer YES to this question.

5. Can the server response be anticipated?

Answer NO if there is data coming back from the server that we can't know (example: a list of bank accounts from Plaid, input validation that the server must perform). Answer YES if we can know what the response from the server would be.

6. Is there validation done on the server that can't be done on the front end?

If there is some validation happening on the server that needs to happen before the feature can work, then we answer YES to this question. Remember, this is referring to validation that cannot happen on the front end (e.g. reusing an existing password when resetting a password). For example, if we want to set up a bank account then our answer to this question is NO (because we can’t suggest to the user that their request succeeded when really it hasn’t been sent yet–their card wouldn’t work!)

This question can be tricky, so if you’re unsure, please ask a question in #expensify-open-source and tag the contributor management engineer team.

7. Does the user need to know if the action was successful?

Think back to the pinning example from above: the user doesn’t need to know that their pinned report's NVP has been updated. To them the impact of clicking the pin button is that their chat is at the top of the LHN. It makes no difference to them if the server has been updated or not, so the answer would be NO. Now let’s consider sending a payment request to another user. In this example, the user needs to know if their request was actually sent, so our answer is YES.

Commit message:

more info on requirement of patterns

OfflineUX.md, after:

#### Offline UX Patterns

### Contents
* [Motivation & Philosophy](#motivation-&-philosophy)
* [UX Pattern Flowchart](#ux-pattern-flowchart)
* [Answering Questions on the Flow Chart](#answering-questions-on-the-flowchart)
* [Description of the Patterns](#description-of-the-patterns)
    - [None - No Offline Behavior](#none---no-offline-behavior)
    - [A - Optimistic Without Feedback](#a---optimistic-without-feedback)
    - [B - Optimistic With Feedback](#b---optimistic-with-feedback)
    - [C - Blocking Form](#c---blocking-form)
    - [D - Full Page Blocking](#d---full-page-blocking)

### Motivation & Philosophy

Understanding the offline behavior of our app is vital to becoming a productive contributor to the Expensify codebase. Our mission is to support our users in every possible environment, and often our app is used in places where a stable internet connection is not guaranteed. 

The most important concept to keep in mind while reading this document is that we want to allow users to do as much as possible when offline. At first, this might seem impossible because almost everything the user can touch in our app is related to an API request. However, in many cases, we can save that API request and assume it will succeed when the user is back online. We then allow the user to proceed as if their request already succeeded. We call this an optimistic response. Here, we use the word **optimistic** to indicate that we’re confident the request will succeed when the user is online, and we know what that successful response will look like. 

<hr />
Example: Pinning a chat

When a user clicks the pin button <img style="height: 10px; width: 10px;" src="./assets/images/pin.svg"/> on a chat, two things should happen. 

1. **API Request:** We send a request to the API to ensure the change is saved in the database. This way the chat is pinned on all the user's devices, and will remain pinned even if they leave the app and come back. 

2. **UI Changes:** The chat should go to the top of the list with the other pinned chats, and the pin button should look darker than it did before. This is visual feedback that clicking the pin button worked.

If the user is offline, we don't need to wait for the API request to finish before doing all that visual stuff because this particular API request has almost no way of failing, and we know what the server will return in advance. That means we can safely assume that when we send the command, it will succeed and that's why we let the user continue using the app as if the action succeeded.

<hr />

1. In some instances, we simply wouldn't know _how_ to proceed because of a lack of information (often the server returns data that we wouldn't be able to guess the content of). 

1. We don't know _how_ to proceed because of a lack of information (often the server returns data that we wouldn't be able to guess the content of). 

2. We may be able to guess what a successful request would look like, but we don't want to misguide the user into believing their action was completed. For example, we don't want the user to believe that a financial transaction has been made when it actually hasn't. 

To handle problems like this, we have developed offline UX patterns and guidance on when to use them. Every feature of this application should fit into one of these patterns.

### Descriptions of the UX Patterns

# None - No Offline Behavior

 There’s no specific UI for this case. The feature either looks totally normal and works as expected (because it doesn’t need the server to function) or the feature looks like it did whenever connection was lost. 

Used when…
 - there is no interaction with the server in any way
 - or data is READ from the server and does not need to show up-to-date data. The user will see stale data until the new data is put into Onyx and then the view updates to show the new data. 

# A - Optimistic Without Feedback Pattern

This is the pattern where we queue the request to be sent when the user is online and we continue as if the request succeeded. 

Used when…
 - the user should be given instant feedback and
 - there is no error handling in the server and
 - the user does not need to know when the change is done on the server in the background

How to implement: Use API.write() to implement this pattern. 

# B - Optimistic WITH Feedback Pattern
This pattern queues the API request, but also makes sure that the user is aware that the request hasn’t been sent yet **when the user is offline**. When the user is online, the feature should just look like it succeeds immediately (we dont want the offline UI to flicker on and off when the user is online).

Used when…
 - the user needs feedback that data is being sent to the server
This is a minority use case at the moment, but INCREDIBLY HELPFUL for the user, so proceed with cautious optimism.

How to implement: Use API.write() to implement this pattern. 

# C - Blocking Form UI Pattern
This pattern blocks the user from interacting with an entire page.

Used when…
 - a form is used to make a WRITE request to the server and 
 - server has to do some validation of the parameters that can’t be done in the client or
 - server response will be unknown so it cannot be done optimistically
 - If the request is moving money 
 - If the request is related to security

What: This pattern greys out the submit button on a form and does not allow the form to be submitted. We also show a "You appear offline" message near the bottom of the screen. Importantly, we do let the user fill out the form fields. That data gets saved locally so they don’t have to fill it out again once online.

When: This should be used when we cannot allow the user to submit the form while offline.

How to implement: Use the `<FormAlertWithSubmitButton/>` component.

# D - Full Page Blocking UI Pattern
This pattern blocks the user from interacting with an entire page.

Used when…
 - blocking READ is being performed. This occurs when the data that a user sees cannot be stale data and the data can only be displayed after fetching it from the server (eg. Plaid's list of bank accounts)
 - the app is offline and the data cannot be fetched
 - an error occurs when fetching the data and the user needs instructions on what to do next
This should only be used in the most extreme cases when all other options have been completely and utterly exhausted

What: This pattern blocks the user from interacting with an entire page.

How to implement: Wrap the component you're working on in a `<FullPageOfflineBlockingView>` component. 

### UX Pattern Flow Chart

The following flowchart can be used to determine which UX pattern should be used.

![New Expensify Data Flow Chart](/web/OfflineUX_Patterns_Flowchart.png)

### Answering Questions on the Flow Chart

The numbers in this section correlate to the numbers in each decision box above (the diamond shapes).

1. Does the feature interact with the server?

If you’re changing an existing feature, you can open the network tab of dev tools to see if any network requests are being made when you use the feature. If network requests are being made, the answer to this question is YES. Note: sometimes you may see reqeusts that happen to fire at the same time as the feature you're working on, so be sure to double check. 
If you’re making a new feature, think about whether any data would need to be retrieved or stored from anywhere other than the local device. If data needs to be stored to, or retrieved from the server, then the answer is YES.

2. What type of request is being made?

If there’s new data being saved on the server, you’re making a WRITE request. If you’re retrieving existing data from the server, you’re making a READ request. 

3. Is it OK for the user to see stale data?

Example: The payment method list. We don't want the user to see a payment method that we no longer support, not even while the payment methods are being loaded from the server (or while the user is offline). Therefore, we answer NO, which leads us to the blocking UI. This way the user won't see stale data while we load the payment methods.

4. Is the UI a form?

Any easy way to tell if something is a form is to try and find a submit button. If a submit button is present or if the user is filling out form inputs, answer YES to this question.

5. Can the server response be anticipated?

Answer NO if there is data coming back from the server that we can't know (example: a list of bank accounts from Plaid, input validation that the server must perform). Answer YES if we can know what the response from the server would be.

6. Is there validation done on the server that can't be done on the front end?

If there is some validation happening on the server that needs to happen before the feature can work, then we answer YES to this question. Remember, this is referring to validation that cannot happen on the front end (e.g. reusing an existing password when resetting a password). For example, if we want to set up a bank account then our answer to this question is NO (because we can’t suggest to the user that their request succeeded when really it hasn’t been sent yet–their card wouldn’t work!)

This question can be tricky, so if you’re unsure, please ask a question in #expensify-open-source and tag the contributor management engineer team.

7. Does the user need to know if the action was successful?

Think back to the pinning example from above: the user doesn’t need to know that their pinned report's NVP has been updated. To them the impact of clicking the pin button is that their chat is at the top of the LHN. It makes no difference to them if the server has been updated or not, so the answer would be NO. Now let’s consider sending a payment request to another user. In this example, the user needs to know if their request was actually sent, so our answer is YES.
