docs/API.md, before:

# API Details
These are best practices related to the current API used for App. This does not relate to any of our `DeprecatedAPI`.
## Philosophy
- We desire to have a 1:1:1 ratio of user action to web server (PHP) commands to database server (Auth) commands.
- Each user action should generate at most 1 API call.
- There should be no client-side handling that is unique to any API call.
- Data is pushed to the client and put straight into Onyx by low-level libraries.
- Clients should be kept up-to-date with many small incremental changes to data.
## Response Handling
When the web server responds to an API call the response is sent to the server in one of two ways.
1. **HTTPS Response** - Data that is returned with the HTTPS response is only sent to the client that initiated the request.

    The network library will look for any `onyxData` in the response and send it straight to `Onyx.update(response.onyxData)`.

1. **Pusher Event** (web socket) - Data returned with a Pusher event is sent to all currently connected clients for the user that made the request, as well as any other necessary participants (eg. like other people in the chat)

    Pusher listens for an `onyxApiUpdate` event and sends the data straight to `Onyx.update(pushJSON)`.
### READ Responses
This is a response that returns data from the database.

A READ response is very specific to the client making the request, so it's data is returned with the **HTTPS Response**. This prevents a lot of unnecessary data from being sent to other clients that will never use it.

In PHP, the response is added like this:
```php
$response['onyxData'][] = blahblahblah;
```
The data will be returned with the HTTPS response.
### WRITE Responses
This response happens when new data is created in the database.

New data (`jsonCode===200`) should be sent to all connected clients so a **Pusher Event** is used to update another currently connected clients with the new data that was created.

In PHP, the response is added like this:
```php
$onyxUpdate[] = blahblahblah;
```
The data will automatically be sent to the user via Pusher.

#### WRITE Response Errors
When there is an error on a WRITE response (`jsonCode!==200`), the error must come back to the client on the HTTPS response. The error is only relevant to the client that made the request and it wouldn't make sense to send it out to all connected clients.
### Hybrid READ/WRITE Responses
There are some commands which might technically be a READ and a WRITE.

For example: Accessing the data for a chat report will return the data if the report exists (READ) OR if the report doesn't exist yet, it will create it (WRITE) and then return the new report. In these cases, the intention is that the command is a READ that will _always_ return something, so the fact that there _could_ be a WRITE is not important. This is still considered to be a READ response, regardless of the lower-level implementation details.
## Command Naming Conventions
- Names must be unique for every user action.
- Names must NOT be shared with our old (now deprecated API)
- Names must always have the format of `<Verb>[<Noun>]` eg. `TransferMoney` `SelectEmoji`.
- Nouns can be optional eg. `SignIn`
- Verbs should be unique and indicate the user's action (as perceived by the user). eg. `Request`, `Open`, `Accept`, `Pay`
  - If a unique verb cannot be used, then use only the standard verbs: `Update`, `Add`, `Delete`
- Names must NOT include names of parameters eg. Bad: `SignInWithPasswordOr2FA` Good: `SignIn`
- Names must NOT reveal backend implementation details that the user does not know about eg. `AddVBBA` (users don't know what a VBBA is - verified business bank account) Good: `AddBankAccount`

Commit message:

use Create/Delete and Add/Remove verbs

docs/API.md, after:

# API Details
These are best practices related to the current API used for App. This does not relate to any of our `DeprecatedAPI`.
## Philosophy
- We desire to have a 1:1:1 ratio of user action to web server (PHP) commands to database server (Auth) commands.
- Each user action should generate at most 1 API call.
- There should be no client-side handling that is unique to any API call.
- Data is pushed to the client and put straight into Onyx by low-level libraries.
- Clients should be kept up-to-date with many small incremental changes to data.
## Response Handling
When the web server responds to an API call the response is sent to the server in one of two ways.
1. **HTTPS Response** - Data that is returned with the HTTPS response is only sent to the client that initiated the request.

    The network library will look for any `onyxData` in the response and send it straight to `Onyx.update(response.onyxData)`.

1. **Pusher Event** (web socket) - Data returned with a Pusher event is sent to all currently connected clients for the user that made the request, as well as any other necessary participants (eg. like other people in the chat)

    Pusher listens for an `onyxApiUpdate` event and sends the data straight to `Onyx.update(pushJSON)`.
### READ Responses
This is a response that returns data from the database.

A READ response is very specific to the client making the request, so it's data is returned with the **HTTPS Response**. This prevents a lot of unnecessary data from being sent to other clients that will never use it.

In PHP, the response is added like this:
```php
$response['onyxData'][] = blahblahblah;
```
The data will be returned with the HTTPS response.
### WRITE Responses
This response happens when new data is created in the database.

New data (`jsonCode===200`) should be sent to all connected clients so a **Pusher Event** is used to update another currently connected clients with the new data that was created.

In PHP, the response is added like this:
```php
$onyxUpdate[] = blahblahblah;
```
The data will automatically be sent to the user via Pusher.

#### WRITE Response Errors
When there is an error on a WRITE response (`jsonCode!==200`), the error must come back to the client on the HTTPS response. The error is only relevant to the client that made the request and it wouldn't make sense to send it out to all connected clients.
### Hybrid READ/WRITE Responses
There are some commands which might technically be a READ and a WRITE.

For example: Accessing the data for a chat report will return the data if the report exists (READ) OR if the report doesn't exist yet, it will create it (WRITE) and then return the new report. In these cases, the intention is that the command is a READ that will _always_ return something, so the fact that there _could_ be a WRITE is not important. This is still considered to be a READ response, regardless of the lower-level implementation details.
## Command Naming Conventions
- Names must be unique for every user action.
- Names must NOT be shared with our old (now deprecated API)
- Names must always have the format of `<Verb>[<Noun>]` eg. `TransferMoney` `SelectEmoji`.
- Nouns can be optional eg. `SignIn`
- Verbs should be unique and indicate the user's action (as perceived by the user). eg. `Request`, `Open`, `Accept`, `Pay`
  - If a unique verb cannot be used, then use only the standard verbs: `Update`, `Add`, `Delete`
  - Use Create/Delete to create or destroy the only copy of data
  - Use Add/Remove when we're just dealing with the copy of data
- Names must NOT include names of parameters eg. Bad: `SignInWithPasswordOr2FA` Good: `SignIn`
- Names must NOT reveal backend implementation details that the user does not know about eg. `AddVBBA` (users don't know what a VBBA is - verified business bank account) Good: `AddBankAccount`
